name	row_number	problem_type	problem_col	error_message
mc01a	1	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc01b	3	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc01d	6	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc01g	10	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc02f	17	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc04c-1	28	value	experiments	This value (long): "LP-HYS" is not found in: experiment column in measurements table.  Also (short): LP-HYS:mc04c-1 is not in measurements.experiment
mc06h	38	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc08a	45	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc08b	47	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc08g	53	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc08h	55	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc09a	57	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc09b	59	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc09d	62	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc103e1	98	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc105a2	109	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc105c1	111	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc105d1	113	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc105j1	118	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc107e2	128	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc109a1	141	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc109c1	144	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc109d1	146	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc109e1	148	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc10a	151	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc10b	153	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc10d	156	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc111d2	172	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc111e2	175	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc113a1-1	187	value	experiments	This value (long): "LP-HYS" is not found in: experiment column in measurements table.  Also (short): LP-HYS:mc113a1-1 is not in measurements.experiment
mc113a2	189	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc113j1	197	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc113m1	199	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc115a2	208	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc115b1	210	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc115e1	212	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc116b1	217	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc116j2	221	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc117a1	223	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc117a2-1	225	value	experiments	This value (long): "LP-HYS" is not found in: experiment column in measurements table.  Also (short): LP-HYS:mc117a2-1 is not in measurements.experiment
mc117b1	227	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc117d2	229	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc117e2	231	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc119a1	241	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc119b1	243	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc119d2	246	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc119e2	248	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc119f2	250	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc11b	253	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc11c	255	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc11e	258	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc11h	262	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc120a1	264	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc120a2-1	266	value	experiments	This value (long): "LP-HYS" is not found in: experiment column in measurements table.  Also (short): LP-HYS:mc120a2-1 is not in measurements.experiment
mc120b1	268	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc120b2	270	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc120c1	272	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc120f1	274	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc121c1	280	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc121d1	283	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc121e1	287	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc121f2	290	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc121g1	293	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc121k1	297	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc121k2	300	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc123a2	312	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc123b1	314	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc123b2	316	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc123c3	319	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc124a1	323	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc124d2	326	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc125d1	336	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc125e1	338	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc125i1	342	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc127a2	354	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc127c1	357	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc127d1	359	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc128b2	365	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc128c2	367	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc128j1	374	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc129a1-1	376	value	experiments	This value (long): "LP-HYS" is not found in: experiment column in measurements table.  Also (short): LP-HYS:mc129a1-1 is not in measurements.experiment
mc129b1	379	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc129c1	381	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc129l1	387	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc130a1	389	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc130d1	393	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc130h1	396	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc131b1	401	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc131c2	403	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc131d2	405	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc131e1	407	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc131g1	410	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc132e2	417	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc132f2	419	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc132g2	421	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc132h2	422	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc132i2	424	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc132j1	426	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc132k1	429	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc133f1	434	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc133g1	436	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc133l1	439	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc134c2	443	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc134f1	446	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc135a1	449	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc135c2	452	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc135e1	455	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc136a2	461	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc139a1	481	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc139c1	484	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc13a	490	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc13b	492	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc13c	494	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc13d	496	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc140a1	502	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc140b1	504	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc140c1	506	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc140d1	508	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc142c1	522	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc142d1	526	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc142e2	530	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc142f2	533	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc142k2	538	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc144e1	551	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc144f1	554	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc144h1	557	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc144j2	562	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc144k1	564	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc145c2	567	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc145f1	569	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc145k2	573	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc145l1	575	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc146e1	579	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc146f1	581	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc146j2	586	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc147a1	589	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc147i1	592	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc147j2	594	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc147k2	596	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc148d1	600	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc148i1	603	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc148j1	605	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc14b	614	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc14c	616	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc14d	618	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc14h	623	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc153a1	638	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc153c1	641	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc154a2	648	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc154j2	654	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc155c1	658	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc155h1	662	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc155m1	665	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc157c2	679	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc158a1	685	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc158b1	687	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc15a	694	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc15b	697	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc15c	700	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc15c2	703	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc15c2	704	value	experiments	This value (long): "AARM" is not found in: experiment column in measurements table.  Also (short): AARM:mc15c2 is not in measurements.experiment
mc15h	710	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc15h	711	value	experiments	This value (long): "AARM" is not found in: experiment column in measurements table.  Also (short): AARM:mc15h is not in measurements.experiment
mc160a1	713	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc160e1	718	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc160f2	721	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc161b1	727	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc161g1	731	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc162b1	735	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc162c1	738	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc164a2-1	752	value	experiments	This value (long): "LP-HYS" is not found in: experiment column in measurements table.  Also (short): LP-HYS:mc164a2-1 is not in measurements.experiment
mc164c1	755	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc164f1	757	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc164j1	762	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc165b1	766	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc165c1	769	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc165h2	773	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc165i2	775	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc166b1	778	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc166c1	781	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc166h2	784	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc166i2	787	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc167b1	790	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc167d2	792	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc167e2	795	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc167k1	800	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc168a1	802	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc168c2	805	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc168d1	807	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc168f1	809	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc168h2	812	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc19b	823	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc200b1	832	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc200c1	835	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc200d1	838	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc200h1	841	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc200i1	843	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc201b1	846	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc202b1	854	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc204b1	868	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc205a1-1	874	value	experiments	This value (long): "LP-HYS" is not found in: experiment column in measurements table.  Also (short): LP-HYS:mc205a1-1 is not in measurements.experiment
mc205a2	876	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc205b1	878	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc205h1	883	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc205i2	886	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc205k1	888	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc206b1	891	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc206c1	893	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc206d1	895	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc206e1	897	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc206f1	899	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc208b1	912	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc20d	927	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc20h	931	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc211b1	939	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc211e1	942	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc211g1	945	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc211h1	948	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc211i1	950	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc214b1	965	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc214d1	968	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc214g1	971	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc214h1	974	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc214j1	976	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc215a1	979	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc215b1	982	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc215c1	984	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc215d1	987	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc215h1	990	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc216a1	994	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc216b1	997	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc216c1	999	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc217a1	1007	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc217a2-1	1009	value	experiments	This value (long): "LP-HYS" is not found in: experiment column in measurements table.  Also (short): LP-HYS:mc217a2-1 is not in measurements.experiment
mc217b1	1011	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc217c1	1015	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc217d1	1018	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc217e1	1021	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc218a1	1023	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc218b1	1026	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc218d1	1029	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc218i1	1032	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc218j1	1035	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc219a1	1038	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc219b1	1041	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc219c1	1044	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc219d1	1047	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc219e1	1050	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc21a	1053	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc21b	1055	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc21c	1057	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc21e	1060	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc220a1	1065	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc220b1	1068	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc220c1	1071	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc220d1	1074	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc220e1	1077	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc222b1	1087	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc223a1	1093	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc223b1	1096	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc223c2	1099	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc223g1	1104	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc223l1	1106	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc225a1	1114	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc225b1	1117	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc225c1	1119	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc225d1	1122	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc225i1	1127	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc226b1	1130	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc227b1	1135	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc228a1	1142	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc228b1	1145	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc228d1	1148	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc228e1	1151	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc228g1	1154	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc229g1	1161	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc229h1	1163	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc229i1	1166	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc229k1	1168	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc26a	1170	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc26c	1173	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc26d	1175	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc26e	1177	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc28a	1182	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc28b	1184	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc28c	1186	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc28f	1190	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc29d	1197	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc30a	1203	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc30b	1205	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc30d	1208	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc30e	1210	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc31b	1215	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc32a	1221	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc32b	1223	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc32d	1226	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc32e	1228	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc33b	1234	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc33c	1236	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc33e	1239	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc34c	1246	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc35a	1252	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc35b	1254	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc35c	1256	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc35d	1258	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc36a	1264	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc36b	1266	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc36e	1270	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc36h	1274	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc37c	1278	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc37d	1280	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc37e	1282	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc37h	1286	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc38g	1293	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc39a	1296	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc39b	1298	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc39c	1300	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc40e	1310	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc43f	1331	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc44a	1334	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc44b	1336	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc44g	1342	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc44h	1344	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc48f	1351	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc48g	1353	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc50a	1363	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc50b	1365	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc50e	1369	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
mc50f	1371	value	int_scat	"t" is not in controlled vocabulary for boolean
