************
Astroimtools
************


Astroimtools Overview
=====================

**Astroimtools** is an open-source Python package to provide
convenience tools for working with astronomical images.  It is an open
source (BSD licensed) Python package.  Bug reports, comments, and help
with development are very welcome.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    astroimtools/install.rst
    changelog


Tools Documentation
===================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    astroimtools/stats.rst
    astroimtools/arithmetic.rst
    astroimtools/filtering.rst
    astroimtools/nddata_adapters.rst
    astroimtools/cutouts.rst
    astroimtools/utils.rst
    astroimtools/scripts.rst
    astroimtools/high-level_API.rst


Reporting Issues
================

If you have found a bug in Astroimtools please report it by creating a
new issue on the `Astroimtools GitHub issue tracker
<http://github.com/spacetelescope/astroimtools/issues>`_.

Please include an example that demonstrates the issue that will allow
the developers to reproduce and fix the problem. You may be asked to
also provide information about your operating system and a full Python
stack trace.  The developers will walk you through obtaining a stack
trace if it is necessary.

Astroimtools uses a package of utilities called `astropy-helpers
<http://github.com/astropy/astropy-helpers>`_ during building and
installation.  If you have any build or installation issue mentioning
the ``astropy_helpers`` or ``ah_bootstrap`` modules please send a
report to the `astropy-helpers issue tracker
<https://github.com/astropy/astropy-helpers/issues>`_.  If you are
unsure, then it's fine to report to the main Astroimtools issue
tracker.


Contributing
============

Like the `Astropy`_ project, Astroimtools is made both by and for its
users.  We accept contributions at all levels, spanning the gamut from
fixing a typo in the documentation to developing a major new feature.
We welcome contributors who will abide by the `Python Software
Foundation Code of Conduct
<https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/>`_.

Astroimtools follows the same workflow and coding guidelines as
`Astropy`_.  The following pages will help you get started with
contributing fixes, code, or documentation (no git or GitHub
experience necessary):

* `How to make a code contribution <http://astropy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/development/workflow/development_workflow.html>`_

* `Coding Guidelines <http://docs.astropy.org/en/latest/development/codeguide.html>`_

* `Try the development version <http://astropy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/development/workflow/get_devel_version.html>`_

* `Developer Documentation <http://docs.astropy.org/en/latest/#developer-documentation>`_
